**[Next Permutation](https://leetcode.com/problems/next-permutation/)**

Medium

A **permutation** of an array of integers is an arrangement of its members into a sequence or linear order.

- For example, for `arr = [1,2,3]`, the following are all the permutations of `arr`: `[1,2,3], [1,3,2], [2, 1, 3], [2, 3, 1], [3,1,2], [3,2,1]`.

The **next permutation** of an array of integers is the next lexicographically greater permutation of its integer. More formally, if all the permutations of the array are sorted in one container according to their lexicographical order, then the **next permutation** of that array is the permutation that follows it in the sorted container. If such arrangement is not possible, the array must be rearranged as the lowest possible order (i.e., sorted in ascending order).

- For example, the next permutation of `arr = [1,2,3]` is `[1,3,2]`.
- Similarly, the next permutation of `arr = [2,3,1]` is `[3,1,2]`.
- While the next permutation of `arr = [3,2,1]` is `[1,2,3]` because `[3,2,1]` does not have a lexicographical larger rearrangement.

Given an array of integers `nums`, _find the next permutation of_ `nums`.

The replacement must be **[in place](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/In-place_algorithm)** and use only constant extra memory.

**Example 1:**

```
Input: nums = [1,2,3]

Output: [1,3,2]
```

**Example 2:**
```
Input: nums = [3,2,1]

Output: [1,2,3]
```


**Example 3:**
```
Input: nums = [1,1,5]

Output: [1,5,1]
```

**Example 4:**
```
Input: nums = [2,1,5,4,3,0,0]

Output: [2,3,0,0,1,4,5]
```


**Constraints:**

- `1 <= nums.length <= 100`
- `0 <= nums[i] <= 100`

#### Approach 1: Brute Force Approach

#### Complexity

- Time complexity: O(n! * n)
- Space complexity: O(n! * n)
    
**Steps:**

Step 1: Find all possible permutations of elements present and store them.

Step 2: Search input from all possible permutations.

Step 3: Print the next permutation present right after it.

#### Approach 2: Optimized Approach

#### Complexity

- Time complexity: O(n)
- Space complexity: O(1)
    
The steps are the following:

1. **Find the break-point, i:** Break-point means the **_first index i from the back of the given array_** where arr[i] becomes smaller than arr[i+1].
    
    For example, if the given array is {2,1,5,4,3,0,0}, the break-point will be index 1(_0-based indexing_). Here from the back of the array, index 1 is the first index where arr[1] i.e. 1 is smaller than arr[i+1] i.e. 5.
    
    _To find the break-point, using a loop we will traverse the array backward and store the index i where arr[i] is less than the value at index (i+1) i.e. arr[i+1]._
    
2. **If such a break-point does not exist i.e. if the array is sorted in decreasing order,** the given permutation is the last one in the sorted order of all possible permutations. So, the next permutation must be the first i.e. the permutation in increasing order.  
    So, **_in this case, we will reverse the whole array and will return it as our answer._**
    
3. **If a break-point exists:**
    
    1. Find the smallest number i.e. > arr[i] and in the right half of index i(i.e. from index i+1 to n-1) and swap it with arr[i].
    2. Reverse the entire right half(i.e. from index i+1 to n-1) of index i. And finally, return the array.

#### code

```javascript
/**
 * @param {number[]} nums
 * @return {void} Do not return anything, modify nums in-place instead.
 */
var nextPermutation = function(nums) {
    
    let breakPoint = -1;
    let n = nums.length;

    for (let i = n - 2; i >= 0; i--) {
        if (nums[i] < nums[i+1]) {
            breakPoint = i;
            break;
        }
    }

    if (breakPoint === -1) {
        // reverse the array as this is the last permnutation
        nums.reverse();
        return;
    }

    // breakpoint exist
    // find the number which is just greater i.e from n-1 to breakPoint + 1
    for (let i = n - 1; i > breakPoint; i--) {
        if (nums[i] > nums[breakPoint]) {
            //swap
            [nums[i], nums[breakPoint]] = [nums[breakPoint], nums[i]];
            break;
        }
    }

    // reverse the array from breakPoint + 1, n-1
    let i = breakPoint + 1;
    let j = n - 1;
    
    while(i < j) {
        [nums[i], nums[j]] = [nums[j], nums[i]];
        i++; j--;
    }

};
```