[**Two Sum**](https://leetcode.com/problems/two-sum/)

Easy


Given an array of integers `nums` and an integer `target`, return _indices of the two numbers such that they add up to `target`_.

You may assume that each input would have **_exactly_ one solution**, and you may not use the _same_ element twice.

You can return the answer in any order.

**Example 1:**

```
Input: nums = [2,7,11,15], target = 9
Output: [0,1]
Explanation: Because nums[0] + nums[1] == 9, we return [0, 1].
```

**Example 2:**

```
Input: nums = [3,2,4], target = 6
Output: [1,2]
```

**Example 3:**

```
Input: nums = [3,3], target = 6
Output: [0,1]
```

**Constraints:**

- `2 <= nums.length <= 104`
- `-109 <= nums[i] <= 109`
- `-109 <= target <= 109`
- **Only one valid answer exists.**

**Follow-up:** Can you come up with an algorithm that is less than `O(n2)` time complexity?


#### Brute Force Approach

check for every pair

##### Complexity

- Time complexity: O(n^2)
- Space complexity: O(1)

#### Better Approach

- sort the array
- solve it using 2 pointer apporach

The steps are the following:

- We will sort the given array first.
- Now, we will take two pointers i.e. `left`, which points to the first index, and `right`, which points to the last index.
- Now using a loop we will check the sum of arr[left] and arr[right] until left < right.
  - If arr[left] + arr[right] > sum, we will decrement the right pointer.
  - If arr[left] + arr[right] < sum, we will increment the left pointer.
  - If arr[left] + arr[right] == sum, we will return the result.
- Finally, if no results are found we will return “No” or {-1, -1}.

##### Complexity

- Time complexity: O(nlogn)
- Space complexity: O(1)

#### Optimized Approach

#### Complexity

- Time complexity: O(n)
- Space complexity: O(n)
    
The steps are as follows:

1. We will select the element of the array one by one using a loop(say i).
2. Then we will check if the other required element(_i.e._ **_target-arr[i]_**) exists in the hashMap.
    1. If **that element exists**, then we will return the current index i.e. i, and the index of the element found using map i.e. mp[**_target-arr[i]_**].
    2. If **that element does not exist,** then we will just store the current element in the hashMap along with its index. Because in the future, the current element might be a part of our answer.
3. Finally, if we are out of the loop, that means there is no such pair whose sum is equal to the target. In this case, we will return {-1, -1}.

```javascript
var twoSum = function(nums, target) {
    let map = {};
    let ans = [-1, -1]

    for (let i = 0; i < nums.length; i++) {
        let diff = target - nums[i];

        if (map[diff] !== undefined) {
            return [i, map[diff]];
        }

        map[nums[i]] = i;
    }

    return ans;
};
```